# PyCitySchools-Analysis

Overview:
This analysis's objective is to bring an automated solution to the education sector in analyzing the data for a school district in order to make informed decisions regardnig future school budgets and priorities. Information on student math and reading scores, school size and budgets, and other various data are used to showcase obvious trends in school performance. The data is comprised of 15 different schools, 32,715 students, and $24,649,428 budget. The method used was to merge two csv files and extract the data from the combined table to aggregate the data into python panda dataframes. 

Top 3 Observations: 
1. Students score appx 2% higher in reading than in math, which directly correlates with more students passing reading than there are students who passed math. 
2. The 15 schools are comprised of 7 district schools and 8 charter schools. Student size at district school is, on average, higher than those of charter school as th student body ranges from 2,949 - 4976 at district schools and only 427 - 1858 at charter schools. This is likely because district schools are in more locations than charter schools, therefore having a larger student body size. 
3. The budget size at district schools are also larger than those of charter schools. District school budget ranges from $1.7M - $3.2M while charter school ranges from $0.2M - $1.3M. The per student budget for district schools is slightly higher than those of charter schools; however, charter schools have a noticeably higher overall passing rate than district schools. Charter schools dominates the top 5 % overall passing while district schools populates the bottom 5. This indicates that having a higher budget doesn't mean higher passing rates. Other factors such as curriculum structure, student to teacher ratio, and influences of the student's backgrounds in their academic lives could influence their passing rate. This also is a potential opportunity to optimize the budget as trimming down cost doesn't necessarily indicate lower chance of passing. 
